The brief for a run's independent checker, and for the comprehension
probe after it. Both are agents, both start where the session started
and so arrive knowing none of this, and both were retyped from memory
on Run 16 -- once because a rate limit killed the first agent mid-pass
and the whole brief had to be written again. THREE THINGS CHANGE FROM
RUN TO RUN: the first block, and the two items marked THIS RUN ONLY
below. All three are EDITED HERE at the write-up rather than
substituted in the prompt -- the file is the copy both agents are
sent, so a value that lives only in a prompt is a value the next run
retypes. It carries the run whose write-up is happening.
PREVBASIS and PREVSAME are one half whenever the run changed no
allocation area, which is the ordinary case: two names to hunt for and
one to find is not an error.

Substitute per run: RUN=run26  BASIS=g912  OTHER=ghead  PREV=run25
                    PREVBASIS=run25-g912  PREVSAME=run25-g912
                    PRETIP=cdf10f1   (the COMMITTED COPY of the previous
                                      run's file, which is the base the
                                      write-up is diffed against -- NOT the
                                      commit before it, which would show the
                                      run file as wholly new and leave the
                                      pass no `before` to find a stale
                                      paragraph in)
                    RUNTIP=7adaa7d   (the commit pass 2 READS, given in
                                      the launch message -- the commit that
                                      carries this line's edit cannot name
                                      itself -- and advanced here after, as
                                      the record and not the input)


=== THE INDEPENDENT CHECKER, PASS 1 (checklist 6b: after 6a's prose,
    on that one commit's diff, with 6c running beside it) ===

You are an independent checker for a benchmark write-up. Report
DISCREPANCIES, not opinions or style preferences.

WHERE YOU ARE. Work in /home/mikolaj/r/orthotope/micro-regime3. That is
an orthotope checkout, NOT the horde-ad repo your session started in.
Your evidence is THIS RUN'S OWN ARTIFACTS in that directory, with the
reader ./read-run.py there. They are MORE THAN THE JSONS, and a claim
you cannot settle from the JSONs is usually settled by one of the rest:
  RUN-HALF-POP.json  the twenty-two timed processes; every published table
  RUN-HALF-POP.log   the same processes' per-sample stamps -- allocation,
                     mutator, collector, foreign CPU, and the @@saturate
                     plateau line -- read with ./read-run.py FILE --wild
  RUN-counts-HALF[-CLASS].txt  instructions an iteration, PER SHAPE and
                     arm. No reader mode prints a per-shape count, so a
                     per-shape count claim is checked by reading this
                     file directly
  RUN-al-*           the alone-leg riders, behind --deflation
  RUN-gate-*         the gate's four processes
  RUN-pair.txt       the pair note: md5s, .text sizes, the compilers and
                     their commits, the build recipes, the baked RTS
                     line, the fills. EVERY claim about the BINARIES is
                     checkable here and nowhere else
  PREV-*             the previous run's artifacts, for any cross-run
                     figure the write-up quotes
  Main.hs            the shape, class and roster definitions
What is excluded is OTHER REPOSITORIES' tooling, not this run's own
files: no other repository's checkers, linters or conventions come near
these two documents -- they carry a per-repo configuration and will
report correct names as missing. Say `could not check` only after
looking in the list above; Run 22's checker returned seven such items
of which THREE were checkable -- the per-shape counts, the binary
identity and the plateau -- because this paragraph used to read `JSON
artifacts and NOTHING ELSE` and all three live in .txt and .log files.
Do not edit any file. Read and compute only.

YOUR OBJECT IS A COMMIT AND NOT THE WORKING TREE, which is why the
session keeps writing while you run: it may edit the run file during
pass 1 to clear a gate, and 6c edits README beside you throughout. Take
the diff commands below literally and read the working copy for nothing
you are checking.

TWO DOCUMENTS, and the run's numbers are in the second: README.md is what
stands between runs, and runs/run<N>.md is this run's write-up entire --
its head, Results, what the next run compares against, the claims it
should test, the TEN class blocks and its own Provenance. A run
replaces that file and edits README.md around it -- a bullet on the delta
chain, and whatever the replace list turns up.

THE TWO INVOCATIONS SEE DIFFERENT DOCUMENTS, and this is not a
simplification to ignore. PASS 1 reads THE RUN FILE ALONE, because
README's half is being written IN PARALLEL with it and may not exist
yet; that parallelism is why pass 1 is launched where it is. PASS 2
reads BOTH, and is the only invocation that can -- it is also the only
place a figure quoted in both documents is checked on both sides.

THE DIFF, TWO commands -- and which you run depends on which pass you
are: PASS 1 runs the FIRST alone, PASS 2 runs BOTH. They are separate
because the two files have different histories. The run file is touched by the write-up ALONE, so it needs no
upper bound; README also carries edits to the run CHAPTER, which are
procedure and not this run's figures, so it is bounded at RUNTIP:
  git -C /home/mikolaj/r/orthotope diff PRETIP..HEAD   -- micro-regime3/runs
  git -C /home/mikolaj/r/orthotope diff PRETIP..RUNTIP -- micro-regime3/README.md
On Run 22 the unbounded form would have handed you 576 lines of README
against the write-up's 224, most of it chapter restructuring under review
by nobody. If either document was normalised or rewrapped in that range
the diff is mostly character-level; ignore that and judge the substance.

SIX THINGS YOU CANNOT DERIVE, so they are given -- and items 5 and 6
are THIS RUN'S and are rewritten every run:
 1. The basis is RUN-BASIS and publishes every table (RUN-BASIS-main.json,
    and RUN-BASIS-<class>.json for rev bcast bcastmid window scaled runs
    flip block small compose -- TEN, four of them new on this run, and
    reshape1, revsome and slice retired from timing on 2026-09-04 and
    kept in `check`). The control is RUN-OTHER.
 2. PREV is on disk too. Absolutes and anchors are read against
    PREVSAME, the half at this run's own area; the published lineage
    and that run's own second column against PREVBASIS.
 3. Alone-leg riders are RUN-al-<half>-<shape>-r1.json, one bench each
    -- and HALF OF THEM CARRY A `-sat-` INFIX, RUN-al-<half>-sat-<shape>
    -r1.json, which is a DIFFERENT measurement and not a repetition: the
    clean legs and the saturated ones are the two columns the deflation
    splits into, the state the preamble puts on a process and the rest
    the roster adds on top of it. Count them apart. This run has 21 legs
    a half in each state, 84 in all -- 18 main-set shapes and the three
    anchors on a second reps pass. Probes are probe-*.json/.log, and the
    two -g3 twins beside the binaries are probe-g3-<half>-RUN.
 4a. TWO STATISTICS, and they can part in SIGN. A margin between two
    arms is --pair's PAIRED figure, the geomean of the per-shape ratio;
    the Results table's `time` column is winsorized per row, so a ratio
    of two of its entries equals the paired figure only where neither
    row had a cell capped. On Run 26 they parted on four pairs, the
    write-up quoted the paired figure alone, and README's own rule says
    the published column is the yardstick for comparing two rows -- so a
    reader following it reached the opposite sign. CHECK BOTH wherever
    the diff quotes one: --pair prints them side by side and
    --predictions has since 2026-09-06.
 4. read-run.py is the only reader; start with --help. --cells gives
    TSV (slope_s raw, slope_net_s corrected); --pair (with --per-shape),
    --compare (with --chapter, --alloc, --movers, --ci, --counts), --aa,
    --claims, --block, --fingerprint, --machine, --cross-classes and
    --section are the modes for the JSONs and the documents. TWO MORE
    READ THE OTHER ARTIFACTS and are the ones a claim outside the JSONs
    needs: --wild reads a process LOG for its per-sample stamps, which
    is the only route to a plateau or foreign-CPU claim, and --deflation
    reads the riders. The counted-work .txt files have no per-shape mode
    at all -- read them directly for a per-shape count claim.
 5. THIS RUN ONLY -- THE BOX DID NOT CHANGE between PREV and RUN. The
    gate's machine check read +0.72% on `list`'s net over 18 of 19
    shapes against the fingerprint PREV kept, worst
    `stretch-square-1341` +3.43%, none past 5%; the run's own two
    main-set processes read the same comparison at +0.42% (basis,
    worst stretch-square-1341 +4.20%) and -0.91% (other, worst
    stretch-bigstride -3.15%). Every geomean inside 3%, so absolutes DO
    cross that boundary freely and a cross-run absolute comparison is
    fair. (The last box event was before Run 18; nothing since.) It is
    18 OF 19 and not 19 of 19 because this run times `cnn-L1-6x6-c1`
    again, back from the retired list, and PREV's fingerprint has no
    row for it. A LAYOUT TERM DOES ride in every cross-run figure:
    Main.hs moved by EIGHT commits of 2026-09-05 and 2026-09-06, so
    neither half reproduces an earlier binary, no md5 here matches one
    on record, and the exact repetition Runs 19 and 23 could take is
    NOT available -- the write-up says so and reads its cross-run
    column against run25-g912, the previous build of this recipe, at
    seventeen of nineteen comparable arms within 1%. **CROSS-RUN
    FIGURES ARE PINNED TO THE EIGHTEEN SHAPES THE TWO RUNS SHARE**:
    the write-up quotes Run 25's basis column read with `--pin`, which
    is how it can say Run 25's column IS this one arm for arm; a
    checker recomputing over this run's nineteen will disagree with
    every such figure and be reading the wrong population. THE PAIR
    NOTE'S COMMIT IS THE ONE TO BELIEVE: the binaries were built from
    659d898 and the driver stamped 9702f20, the tip, which landed
    after the build and changes only comments -- the note proves it in
    the binary (.text identical, 142 differing bytes, none in .text).
    The two HALVES differ in the COMPILER only: same source, same shim
    commit (b3a1aca, unmoved from Run 25), same shim environment (both
    LOOP_DEADSPOT=1), the other half built through cabal.project.ghead
    against the in-tree GHC HEAD stage1, whose version is unmoved from
    Run 24. Treat that disclosure as correct rather than as a hedge.

 6. THIS RUN ONLY -- RESTATE IT EVERY RUN, and Run 20 is why: this
    block stood with Run 18's window and Run 18's four classes through
    Run 20's probe, which went looking for the wrong classes because
    of it. On Run 26: ONE window, all TWENTY-TWO processes,
    2026-09-06T02:29:46 to 2026-09-06T08:40:03, every one exiting 0 at
    its roster's count -- 570 twice, 420 twice, 180 twice, 150 six
    times, 120 four times and 90 six times -- no complaint and no `!!`
    line, the ghead half first throughout. ONE FOREIGN-CPU EPISODE,
    disclosed and adjudicated: `--wild` over all twenty-two logs puts
    two adjacent benches of run26-ghead-main at 0.42 and 0.80 foreign
    CPU (alexnet-L1-55-c3-k11/sum-only-late and
    alexnet-L2-27-c48-k5/sum-only-early) against 0.01 to 0.07
    everywhere else. Criterion's own reading of those two cells moves
    the sum-only A/A pair by +0.09% and -0.56% where three untouched
    shapes read -0.50%, -0.44% and +0.68%, so post-run step 3's rerun
    was NOT taken and the write-up says why. The four A/A cells past
    5% are wild cells, foreign CPU 0.02 to 0.05 on those processes.
    The gate was launched ONCE, 01:56:24 to 02:29:43 on a box reading
    0.4% non-idle, and the alarm between it and the sequence read
    0.8%. The whole evening ran as ONE command, run-evening.sh, and the
    counted work as a second, run-counts-all.sh, 08:55:18 to 09:32:35,
    22 sweeps with no cell refused by perf. The plateau gate reads all
    twenty-two preamble victims inside a 2.48% spread against a 5%
    band. **THE MAIN SET IS PAST THE 0.7% DIFFERENCING THRESHOLD THIS
    RUN**, `list` moving 1.0116 between the halves, so its two columns
    may NOT be differenced and every cross-half figure is an ORDERING
    -- as on Run 25, and the write-up says so throughout. SIX classes
    are past it too -- rev 1.0088, window 1.0232, runs 0.9923, flip
    1.0072, block 0.9848, small 0.9857 -- and their blocks say so; the
    other four are inside. There are TEN classes: `runs` has FOURTEEN
    shapes, `window` SIX, `block`, `flip` and `small` FIVE, `bcastmid`
    and `compose` FOUR, and `rev`, `bcast` and `scaled` THREE; three
    class views landed 2026-09-05 and are timed for the first time
    here (flip-inner-gap64, flip-outer-gap64, small-patch-r5). THE
    FLOOR IS OVER SIX A/A PAIRS, not sixteen: 0.31% and 0.46% are
    maxima over six and are NOT comparable with the 1.26%/2.11%
    series, and the restricted four-pair figure reads the same two
    numbers. Cells below the shared forcing pass: TEN on the basis
    main set and ELEVEN on the ghead one, EVERY ONE of them a
    `libunord` arm, so those three rows are geomeans on 15, 16 and 16
    of 19 shapes on the basis and 16, 15 and 15 on the other and every
    other row covers all 19. That count is not a finding: those arms
    return a single slice where the one-block test fires, so their
    cell IS the forcing pass and the subtraction lands within two
    parts in a hundred thousand of zero -- registration (3) is
    therefore read RAW and per view, not off the corrected geomean.
    NOT ONE REGISTERED CLAUSE WAS UNREADABLE this run, where Runs 24
    and 25 lost five between them: items (4) to (7) are older clauses
    re-registered in their own words for exactly that reason. THE
    RUN'S LARGEST FINDING IS ABOUT GHC HEAD, not about the fills:
    mut-odo-vecdims-add-in-leaf-u2-ptr reads 0.6219 in counts and
    0.3521 in time between the halves and allocates 2.61x the result
    vector on the ghead half against 1.00x on the basis. All of it is
    disclosed, not hidden; check that the disclosure matches the
    artifacts rather than treating any of it as an error.

THE FIGURE SWEEP -- and it is a SWEEP, not a pass: `pass` in this file
means one of the two agent invocations above, and both sweeps below are
done in EACH of them. Recompute every numeric claim the diff adds,
from the reader or --cells, never by dividing figures printed in a
table (they are rounded to three significant figures). BE EXHAUSTIVE
ON THE TWO HAND-EDITED TABLES AND SAMPLE THE INSTALLED ONES. The
hand-edited pair is the run's own two-column geomeans and the PROVENANCE
ANCHORS: those are typed, and both table errors on record are theirs --
Run 20 omitted the two-column table entirely and Run 22 left the anchors
carrying the previous run's figures in seven of nine cells, through
every gate and a whole checker pass. The installed tables -- Results,
the fingerprint, the class tables, the cross-class summary, the claim
readings -- are matched by whole line with the count asserted. So take
a sample of the installed rows -- TWENTY, spread across the main table,
two class tables and one fingerprint, which is the number and not an
encouragement: four passes have now recomputed 487, 491, 352 and 401
rows and found ZERO wrong between them, and Run 26's pass spent 401 of
them to find none while nine stale PROSE paragraphs sat in the same
diff. Spend what that saves on the prose, which is where every real
finding of those four runs was. Say how many rows you verified, by which
route, and how many disagreed. Pass 2's scope is narrower and is stated
in its own block.

THE SUPERLATIVE SWEEP -- every superlative and count. Every "only",
"largest",
"widest", "highest", "lowest", "smallest", "most", "first", "never"
and every "N of M" is a claim about a whole population: re-derive it
BY SORTING that population, not from the arms the sentence names.
Flag any sentence contradicting a table or another sentence.

Report a numbered list of discrepancies only -- the claim as written,
what you computed, the command you used, and the size of the
disagreement -- plus per-sweep counts of what you verified. Say
explicitly what you could not compute rather than guessing.


=== THE SAME AGENT, PASS 2 (checklist 6d: after 6b AND 6c, over BOTH
    documents, on the single commit that carries them) ===

IT READS BOTH FILES and this is the only pass that can: the run file
with pass one's fixes in it, and README with 6c's requotes. That is
the first moment all of a run's prose exists. A figure quoted in BOTH
-- the floor pair, the six-pair one -- is checked here on both sides
for the first and only time.

YOUR SCOPE IS THIS COMMIT'S DIFF AND NOTHING PASS 1 ALREADY VERIFIED.
Do not recompute an installed table row: `--in-place` matches by whole
line and asserts the count, and pass 1 has read every row once. Run
16's first pass recomputed 487 rows and found not one wrong; Run 18's
recomputed 491, also none -- and both runs' real findings were in the
prose. What you owe on a table is the rows a FIX touched, plus the two
figures that live in BOTH documents, which is the check only this pass
can make.

Send it the fixes, not the prose again. On Runs 15 and 16 most of the
second pass's findings existed ONLY because the first round of fixes
had been written -- nine of thirteen on Run 16 -- so that is what it
is hunting. List each fix you made, so it checks rather than
rediscovers, and ask specifically for: any NEW superlative or count
the fixes introduced, any place a fix now contradicts a neighbouring
sentence left untouched, any figure a fix corrected whose attribution
the correction falsified, and any cross-document figure whose two
copies now disagree.


=== THE COMPREHENSION PROBE (checklist 7a: a DIFFERENT agent, once
    7's fixes are committed and the documents have settled) ===

It must be uncontaminated: a fresh agent, never the checker, which has
seen everything. It reads the two documents and nothing else -- no
reader, no JSONs, no other repo -- and answers their own questions with
citations, quoting the sentence and naming its section and its file.

Ask nine-ish questions that CROSS section boundaries, since that is
the class of defect nothing else can see. The ones that earned their
place on Run 16: this run's floor per half with its carrying pair and
the threshold two table rows must clear; which area the published
tables use and which half publishes; whether a nursery pair's columns
may be subtracted and how many such pairs exist; whether the regime 3
fix is ever slower than what it replaced; which half of the previous
run a figure is compared against and whether that depends on the kind
of figure; what each probe concluded and whether it confirmed or
refuted its registration; what a large single A/A cell should tell a
reader; the placement-sensitive arms and what is known about why; and
whether the machine was undisturbed.

THE CLOSING INSTRUCTION IS THE POINT: list every place the document
contradicted itself, gave two answers to one question, or left the
reader unable to answer despite clearly intending to -- quoting both
sides with their headings -- and everything it had to read three times
or first got wrong, saying what misled it.

AND COUNT ITS FINDINGS BEFORE ACTING ON THEM. A probe's summary is a
reader's experience and not a census: Run 16's reported five senses of
one word where the text had one borrowing, and acting on the summary
would have renamed two things that were already correct.
